<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
	<head>
		<title>Developer's Guide - Overview</title>
	</head>
	<body>
		<h4>Overview</h4>
		<p>
			oopcorenlp_web is a java web application (war). This is not a React/Angular style Single Page App; routes are driven collaboratively via URLs.<br/>
			oopcorenlp_web uses the <a href="https://maven.apache.org/">maven</a> (v3.6.3) toolchain.<br/>
			The back end follows a servlet -> jsp -> js architectural pattern and the front end is javascript v8 code leveraging <a href="https://jquery.com/">jQuery</a>, <a href="https://getbootstrap.com/">Bootstrap</a>, and <a href="https://vega.github.io/">Vega</a>.<br/>
			The back end also provides two REST interfaces: /rest/browse and /rest/api.
			The back end is unencrypted, unauthenticated, stateless and read-only; it only supports the HTTP GET verb and does not maintain HTTP sessions.<br/>
			While there is a lot of javascript code in the project, oopcorenlp_web does not use any sort of javascript minification or webpack tooling. Everything loads in the browser via CDN link. The only exception is:<br/>
			The StanfordBratViewer uses the<a href="http://brat.nlplab.org/">brat visualisation/annotation software</a> via code from the <a href="https://stanfordnlp.github.io/CoreNLP/">CoreNLP package</a>.<br/>				
		</p>
		<p>
			The back end has been tested under <a href="https://tomcat.apache.org/index.html">Tomcat</a> (v9.0.x).
			The front end has been tested on recent versions of Chrome, Firefox, and Edge.
		</p>
	</body>
</html>